are we on alright just for the authority
this is the in web browsers and ipfs GUI
working group weekly team ketchup and
the we're gonna start with reviewing the
okay ours for the first quarter checking
in seeing how we're doing and then we're
gonna just come up with high-level first
draft of okay us for the next quarter I
just paste sorry sorry for interrupting
but I just paste it link to the hockey
arse so that we can open I'd rather not
share anything from my my laptop because
I'm recording and too much for it
so if anyone wants to share that's
perfectly fine but I just won't do that
for my machine mmm I think as long as
either people can remember them or they
have them up one up in front of them I'm
gonna just quickly whizz over the
headlines the objectives for the first
quarter were the the in web browsers
working group has a shared understanding
of how ipfs should work in web browsers
I still think that is a useful goal and
the one that we haven't finished
defining with so yeah the big the the
one that we're missing is document the
user journeys that capture and ideally
user experience using ipfs and daily web
browsing I feel like I personally have a
much better understanding of what's
needed through researching what the
existing user interfaces do but I don't
know how everyone else feels about it I
don't think we as a working group yet
own the story on how idea should work in
web browsers and that was the that was
the ideal outcome of this yeah like my
intuition is same we have a lot of we
did a lot of soul-searching and I feel
that we we can just
copy dis objective to next quarter yep
and create appropriate like cue results
that are continuation of this effort
like it's like an ongoing effort
so Justin I'll see this morning I was
kind of suggesting so I think the
creating of brand the blend book was a
kind of more general effort that I think
a guitar is pretty happy with she's done
the first implementation of that and it
seems good but the style guide and URI
kit there's this something that exists
but my concern from David's feedback on
desktop designs was that if we use the
the UI kit as presented we end up with a
design that we're not yet happy with so
I'm keen to pause coming up with like
how should an input box look until we
have decided what it is web UI is going
to be so I do see that as an important
thing but we'll bond it at the end of
next quarter I think it's so like when
it comes to key results that we would
aside let's say I assigned to a guitar
more like putting a pass on this or I
will just
Renate like reframing it to let's say
wire framing web UI or something like
that
yeah I think at this level so they're
the kind of objectives and key results
level the key result is going to be
something around having an incredible
like coming up with a metric for this
for deciding how good design is is going
to be difficult if you know what I mean
I don't think that that specific key
result is having a UI kit per se it's
having a web be wise that we think is
really useable really simple looks
amazing people want to use it or maybe
we could even do not put any like
subjective yeah
protection on that and just say that the
cue result is to have at least one or
two iterations of web UI wireframe and
maybe that's enough for a cure
organization that kind of thing yeah I
guess I probably shouldn't take too deep
in
all these individual key results because
we'll be here all day yeah like
generally speaking we had this feedback
from Mars that we should not have more
than like three or five objective and no
more than like three or five objectives
so yeah yeah yeah agreed
so I think um yeah we were kind of used
to writing github issues when we first
started this process so if we were
trying to write one line for each
concept yeah I was kind of saying was
more generally like I'm paused on any
style guide stuff until we've figured
out which widgets we need yeah okay
shared understanding we need copy across
objective to browser developers
understand the requirements of the
decentralized web this also still needs
to happen
I am I'm working on are we distributed
yet calm right now I've just pushed
conveying it to a hugo site so that
start just editing data to add more
topics to it so it's now ready for other
people to start filling in more nuanced
information about what what we want what
we need from browser vendors to make the
distributed web a thing I think Kyle has
been pulling together people who should
be on a mailing list yeah so I think
this is all in progress but I think
again this one needs to be copied over
essentially where we can come up with
yeah it's like especially the networking
related stuff that takes time and
there's this addressing content
decentralized web I had like
synchronization and catch-up with Lars
last week I think regarding Dutch we
exchanged notes and have some general
discussion in the direction where this
document should go but it it won't
Candice quarter like I was to like way
too optimistic when it comes to like
challenges when what what we want from
this document and after discussion with
ours
it's like broad and scope in my hand a
little bit especially that before we
provide technical details we should
provide a very good high-level case and
there is a ton of notes and there needs
to be done a lot of editing related
stuff like worked before we can call it
a draft so that I just move it to for
next quarter mmm
number three move towards ipfs working
seamlessly in browsers I think this one
we've got the most progress on yeah this
one is fantastic we like window ipfs was
like nice to have it right now I'd say
it's like the main feature we have and
it made embedded J's ipfs note much more
relevant obscure see like without
without this there was like ah it's nice
we can upload but yeah when we have
window ipfs object you can actually run
distributed applications as long as you
take advantage of it
so that's it's a fantastic progress my
personal idea when it comes to this is
to iron all the performance-related
kinks when it comes to sharing and
pinning maybe not only performance but
UX stuff like user just drags and drops
huge directory it should like work be
slow but work and another idea is to we
probably should have some kind of key
results related to this sharing revamp
or maybe that's for the next one I'm not
sure maybe we should merge those two now
that we have a low-level window ipfs
that's my take on that come when I say
merge you mean merge the like sharing
like we have this move toward ipfs
working seamlessly in browsers this is
like more technical one I like I feel
something related to break integration
maybe we should have key results related
to to like brave and work justice
ignites and like ongoing effort and
maybe this sharing and uox two tweaks
should go to the next one let the fourth
one write like a full subjective yeah
like this provide a nice desktop
experience cause to collect more more
like anything here related to X I I'd
say should go to the last one and the
third one should be like maybe we should
provide more I don't know more sample
apps
I'm not sure but mostly like I'd say
performance fixes right I think yeah we
don't have to we need to aim for three
or four objectives and it may be that
we're just copying them over but it may
be that we need to reframe them slightly
more to better capture what we're
talking about yeah point taken more
sample apps would definitely be a good
how do we educate people about windowed
ipfs is existence and how they can build
disappeared apps I think I think we need
to be trying to build some distributed
apps very soon so that we dog food this
new now that when new idea this exists
like we need to try and build some
things on it so that we can write write
the codes alright like we had this at
some point we had well at the moment
when we were just writing
github issues secure easels we had huge
odds that said we should implement by
PFS object support within pew button
maybe something like that I'll just go
over location
we should I think we can now actually
send a pull request appear pets like if
Joe's just waiting for all of the pieces
to be in place before before I could
send runs their pad but yeah I can also
just back on the lots of sample apps I
can totally get behind that there's two
that I did already one with the pub/sub
chatting and one with the peer peer map
thing but yes or more some more would
could always be good yeah and like where
do I will be one of them
yeah that's really absolutely the pick
one that's that's very important that it
will be a core feature that we use on
daily basis so we will like catch all
the problems before the hill nope
there'll be no problem special brand
just well it's highlighted the brave
stuff is pools to pull request is open
in as much as the IPS companion works in
brave but without register stream
protocol we can't get the nice URL bar
handling that we want where we can
literally return files directly from the
embedded ipfs mode which is where we
want to get to the pool of quests that
can make that happen is a sat with them
they've put some comments on it so I
need to get back to them about that but
again it's still not gonna get in for q1
but we can reframe the key result for q2
to have it to get it released like we
know the with what we've copying stuff
over and reframing them I think we
should definitely reframe him I don't I
I'm curious to know how we give give off
the impression that we have made process
progress without like without just
copying them over because it we need to
now say well we have actually made some
progress and now now we know that these
are the
rather than just copying over the same
thing so yeah I strongly agree we should
refrain that what we have there even if
we are sort of saying we are copying
them over but we've made progress on
almost everything we agree on the flip
side I think it's totally reasonable for
a specific topic working group if if we
came up with good objectives in the
first quarter it's probably okay that
our objectives haven't changed that much
in the second quarter but yeah the key
results may may need a little bit of
evidencing the things I moved on yeah
like that this another step in the right
direction but if our documentation is
improving all round so that's good I
guess of note there we probably perhaps
didn't do necessarily a great job of
creating a key result that could be
measured but I suppose the documentation
is up to date so I think that one's a
success yeah like we have in companion
we have dogs directory that we started
putting the dog star and there is no
longer one huge readme and one huge like
developer notes on the contribute page
so I think that's quite useful and with
like yeah that that's linkable
documentation is slowly growing so I'd
say we make the good progress I think if
we release companion and people will
come to the site and start opening
issues saying how do I do this or what
do I do that we know we haven't got done
a good job on that yeah yeah but if we
can then just point them at the dog then
that's good yeah like we should surface
those documentation like those dogs in
rails notes and the the blog post that
will happen after so that people won't
ask those questions there was just a
link there
[Music]
so the next day you work em cookin me
yeah
companion follows draft if I get a style
guide well that's not happen because I
haven't committed to the style guide yet
switched to Jenkins based COI process
for companion that has happened it's
done and reek desktop the ipfs Joey's
even you have been fighting that upload
if you've made it work by force of will
yeah about this he arms the first one
wasn't sent to you the published I'm
RELIGIOUS of desktop I don't know if the
secrets management and Jenkins is
already working so I don't know if you
can't do that or not Victor probably
knows that better than me we address
correct Reporting Initiative percent
coverage I don't know if we should do
that because we are going to change
desktop to use web UI behind so what do
you think should be well should i what
should i work towards 80% courage
knowing that in the future
that the code will be completely
different it's a good point probably no
and is the same for the documentation
for desktop because if we will change in
the near future it will be completely
different
yeah I would imagine that this this
entire key result will definitely change
focus this one won't be copied across
without significant changes yeah like
what we need this is called luck coming
from it's missing on the ipfs companion
site that's we for the desktop app we
should have an integration tests which
are like running actual application and
for its electron so there are probably
some tools and we could reframe this
from like we want 88% of
for this coverage to like create a test
framework that runs integration tests of
the stock up on different platforms
because right now that now that we have
Jenkins and I've it with it a little bit
it's very good idea to have jobs that
runs tests on Mac on Windows Mac Linux
and see what's different because there
is always something different yeah that
would be my idea to reframe it
Laura do you know if you can do like
selenium testing with a a web extension
or anything just like in past we had
support at the SDK level that you were
able to inspect if browser chrome like
if the toolbar has the button that
should appear when we define it in the
API that's no longer the case
we don't have access to those api's they
waited again okay like it was provided
by alt as decay in Firefox and it's just
got the duplicate that we it's like a
functional regression when it comes to a
browser extension development we no
longer can inspect browser internals I
feel like yeah a year ago maybe longer
ticket on the like Mozilla ripoff or web
X tool that we are missing this
functionality for integration testing
they said that like you can run tests
with things like mocha or maybe karma
but you won't have access to those
low-level like browser interfaces and I
feel that this is possible but it
requires changes in the browser like
adding some additional restricted IP
api's that will let you to access those
things but only when
like this tool web xed is running on the
same machine that your browser extension
or something like that it's executed I
feel it's a security problem they
explicitly made to block browser like
web extensions limited and they don't
want to like go back to the ecosystem
when you you can just read stuff from
your disk or access some random memory
so that's that yeah well I was just
gonna say that's probably deep enough
first the history of with extension
testing oh yeah and just to get it back
to desktop sorry but the point remains
an Rick's point is totally valid like
we're not going to copy this this okay
are across but there's going to be we're
going to want to rebuild web UI very
test driven like we're going to want
good coverage from day one because we're
gonna we've built our prototype versions
this this one is like the production
grade one where everything is tested and
then with desktop as the wrapper we will
want tests for for the desktop specific
functionality so we will we'll
definitely want a test for the the
install flow not on the Installer per se
but that first new user experience of if
they don't have a an IP FS repo things
that are slightly I'd beyond the scope
of the web UI we would that would be
amazing to have tests for that and it's
yeah like that estimate reeks for
different platforms free yeah definitely
all of that but yeah not right not this
moment Burford like goals goals for key
to we're going to want that yeah yeah so
I mean on balance you know some of our
ochio's are done and some of them aren't
and but I don't think it's a it's not
really about that at this stage this was
about finding our feet and getting used
to the okay our process a little said I
it sounds as though we were a little bit
overly ambitious with what we're trying
to do there just to give us a awesome no
totally I partly that I think also this
we were more interested in building the
apps that we already understood than
generating user stories and that's
partly because of you know who we are
and developers thing is that we were
still like we were building a team and
generally speaking the okie are
processed world's best when it's like
ongoing process that you have at least
one water back to look back and ponder
all right we had like yeah so I feel we
did not do bad given that we just
started doing stuff and though we did
explicitly now what has the higher
priority than others it's really I think
we did fine and we're gonna do better
next Q next quarter so seeing the first
two goals the first two objectives we
have a shared understanding of how IP if
I should work in browsers and browser
developers understand requirement at the
center as web I think those objectives
we would probably copy across then three
and four are more up for grabs in terms
of how we nuance them how how do we
express our kind of focus not wanting to
build web UI we want to spend most of
our time building web UI together so we
want to sort of chain we definitely want
to change that we need to reduce the
number of key results and that kind of
thing but so just thinking like the
challenge was to remove the last two or
maybe merge them and reframe them around
web UI because like web UI related work
who
touch both desktop and tons of
extraction and even like the end users
experience - maybe we should like create
an objective to deliver like initial a
tower or something like that of web UI
by the end of the quarter like working
minimal working example that takes
advantage of web ipfs object and stuff
like that yeah and right key results
around that yeah three months I reckon
we should you should you should go
bigger we should have you should have a
really good whether you are deployable
and go ipfs that would be right you know
this RIT like I should at least be have
the feature that we have to define
what's like the smallest feature set for
it to be worth replacing the existing
web UI whether do we have to have a one
for one with the existing features
before it's ready oh yeah
there's not much right now do i yeah
yeah exactly
if it did its job and it's tapered like
if we make it better and just do those
things I just do as you can see about 20
why do you think it would be better to
build it from zero or to reuse the
current code because I think it's a bit
confusing the code but my assumption
would be this would be a clean slate and
that we would we would use the existing
implementation as the as like a
reference for what's the minimum feature
set the code would start with a fresh
repo I think okay it's better I think so
too
I think you know it's a bunch of other
people's decisions that we're now gonna
have to take take ownership of and
maintain and feel confident in so you
know we can do all that we can do all
the hard work as long as you get to have
the fun as well of starting a new
project we yeah like maybe it's not a
proper
time to ask this but should we create a
new repository or should we just work on
my separate branch like personally I'd
like to keep the repository just for
like historic calls that we like there's
a lot of issues and discussions and
design decisions within existing
repository so that's like an argument
why we should create a new branch just
really remove everything or just start a
new branch from scratch right and at
some point you just replace master with
it yeah formula but we will I guess
we'll know better
once we've been through the wire framing
process but I think that's the general
feeling yeah okay so the and should wait
do I depend of your I depend on BFS
implementation or should web UI depend
on companion in this window ipfs that's
a good version I think it I think what
you are is gonna depend on window to
ipfs yeah so but that should be like the
default and that would remove the
security concerns a lot of people so if
we make web UI default to web ipfs and
actually to only work with that that
would be fantastic because there would
be no direct interaction with IPF a like
api port and I feel that that's very
very important this work it's worth
mentioning that it's not somebody using
window type EFS we're not with web UI
isn't depending on companion in that way
like that's just something that
companion provides and and this is
exactly what an electron will provide or
you know the desktop will provide in the
same way as companion does like it's not
it's not tied to companion if you see I
mean but it can be used with companion
like you could just
have companion installed and while we're
diving it we can use window to ipfs
there but you know when it's released in
desktop the electron wrapper will
provide window type FS yeah and then you
know it could but I know we're saying it
should only use window two ipfs but it
could fall back to using JSI DFS api and
maybe even initially so that it can be
but just be bundled with go ipfs as it
is right now yeah absolutely I think we
would the transition path and the
deployment and support what what
scenarios must be supported and what
where we'd like to get to it can be a
transition path so like only ever use
window to ipfs but I think it would as
Ivan said would bundle gaius ipfs api
with it if window type in us doesn't
exist and used before that yeah like do
what is happening right now just refuse
to work with api if it's not running on
localhost right and perfect one to one
replacement yeah but we have drifted
from the agenda that feedback so i think
we've covered how we got on with key one
and basically where we're going for key
to a high level we haven't managed to
come up with the wording of the third
objective but i wasn't expecting to get
all that done on this call anyway i
think we've got a sense it's basically
web UI and how we what's our objective
for web UI is essentially what we're
talking about it's that people agree
with that yeah ok cool so maybe we could
hang around on ILC after this cool and
just thrash out that third objective
that would be useful but there's some
other notes in the agenda about feedback
from other working groups are there any
oakley ours that require support from QA
testing and dev team enabled or any
other working group yeah this is
something i wanted to highlight
trust me to ask the entire working group
is there anything related to like
infrastructure testing tools like
Jenkins without out of it amounts of
websites that we need help with and so
far I identified this need for providing
working solution for shared secrets in
Jenkins builds that would benefit of
ipfs desktop for like application and
installer staining as well as browser
extension because if we had this secret
solution in place we could have as
dedicated better branch and every time
we merge staff to better branch better
would be automatically signed by Mozilla
and it would be automatically deployed
to like Firefox store and chrome store
and that way if a bus hits me you can
still do a release
oh no I think yeah I feel yeah I think
Davidge also has access to even Zilla
store but still just don't get hit by a
bus yeah that's our current solution as
well snow fell so like don't say that
yeah but going back to this request do
we have any urgent needs when it comes
to to like this infrastructure
infrastructure QA oh geez Jenkins a ton
in the past but it'd be good to get I
don't know where I go and find out what
our particular Jenkins setup supports so
be good to just get an introduction to
it yeah like so I think I like provide
feedback to victor Judd we would love to
see some instructions how to set up like
builds for different
platforms right yeah Allen yes I just
had a suggestion when it says QA I just
thought it'd be rad if we could get like
a whole bunch of people to use some of
the things that we're building and give
us some kind of feedback on the UI like
how it works what they fought about it
you know that sort of thing is that fall
under QA III I think it's mostly this QA
small from the technical side like right
but we can we can and we will do
organize some people when we write blog
posts that advertise our better channels
and I think is really a really good
point when we release new web UI new
desktop new IPS companion there's an
assumption that other members of ipfs
will test it we'll try our we dog food
it but we should probably make that a
bit more explicit like it'd be useful
and also undoubtably some members of
ipfs will install it and do test it but
it'd be nice to make that a bit more
explicit in terms of like we would like
your feedback now in this document
rather than have you raised an issue in
three months time saying you don't like
it you know you know I mean like if we
if we are more proactive in seeking out
feedback on our Terms when we're ready
for it then we'll get a bit less of this
like oh I don't like tabs or you know
like feedback that that is indicative of
a problem but isn't quite as useful as
feedback at the right time in the
process and I imagine we'll also want to
include that at the wireframe stage and
no doubt
David dears will give us plenty of
feedback once we've got some usable
wireframes and designs but just thinking
about it as proactive rather than
reactive let's seek it when we're ready
for it yeah maybe some kind of a process
within protocol labs or maybe core group
or generally protocol upstream that
encourages dogfooding
I think everyone's totally up for it and
as long as we're a bit noisy as long as
we make a big point about it at the
right time I think we'll get lots of
good good information
I can't think of any other I don't
really know what all the working groups
are office of my heads I don't know what
we need from the rest of them yeah like
yeah like I had the discussion with Kyle
regarding public gateways but I think
that work will be kind of parallel to
what we will do with sharing UI this
quarter so I don't feel think we will
need anything from each other at least
nothing comes up to my mind at this
point but if you like have any ideas
what we may need from other groups
should free to raise that there are
things like rate limiting bandwidth
limiting and creating statistics or
something more than an entire repo that
we could ask and communicate to let's
say go ipfs team but I feel that may
happen
at the end of this quarter after we have
wireframes and we have more solid
examples of UI that we want to build
that we can't fully built without those
API sort of features of conservators I
feel maybe next quarter will have some
solid specific key results demand demand
oh yeah yeah I think I think that's very
good I think it probably worth cueing
them up now it's just like I think I
think just knowing how much bandwidth
the specific CID has has have you have
uploaded like what's your things like
this concept of your ratio of like if if
you're hosting a public data set and it
sends that to be super popular and it's
it's like the the peak of your bell
curve of like where's all my bandwidth
going and it's like oh well it's because
I rehearsed the xkcd archive yeah it
isn't everyone everyone loves that yeah
we we should also maybe if
we have some ideas like that we probably
should very early do sanity check with
back-end because like some things that
sound quite easy may not be easy and
they could provide us with not as good
but fine alternative to that what we
want to build so I think communication
is quite important here so that we don't
run into situation when we ask back-end
for something that requires like huge
refactoring called huge performance
penalty yeah so communication you
strongly agree but I've been plopping
information on issues of go ipfs as a
kind of first step to that but okay so
next agenda item ipfs desktop release
plan we've only got five minutes left
but I think we've already touched on web
UI revamp discussion at the bottom there
I think there's a release planned I
think we all have yeah yeah exactly yeah
I think I was kind of saying we can't
release it because it explodes when we
add millions of files but I think nrx
point is the version 3 version oh god
sorry explodes when we have millions of
files so we haven't broken anything
yeah the brother might be on going BFS
itself and not on this topic might be
I'd seem to remember there being a
problem with adding loads of files or
but I couldn't find the issue so maybe I
just completely imagine Zach yeah I can
cinderelly
yeah all right last issue yeah I just
send a solution I I think we should
release it as well I might just
conscious
Lidl tends to be very cautious in his
releases and releases them in a beta
channel and then we wait another week
and then it's still in the beta Channel
and then zero bugs get shipped to users
and it's great so have has there I guess
everyone here has had a go at installing
desktop from master and it's not wise
fine should do we should probably get a
handful of hours to write master firstly
it's just trying to get a defined
release process for desktop that similar
to what companion has currently I'm so
little maybe you could talk to it and
reek about what the whereabouts is your
launch checklist is it documented on a
repo and something that we can look like
in seconds it's not there's any other
relevant for desktop or is it mostly
entrance facility yeah like we have
translations we have some I think
orchestration around the way was
literally signing it happens so it's
like very I think so for desktop we've
installed it on OSX we've installed on
Windows even saw that on a Linux flavor
would net so now would be a good time to
cut a video for release and then just
tell like announce it on the All Hands
tonight and then get ipfs users to
install it like it I give a screw seemed
to install it yeah
yeah like it's in two hours so I do you
want to sprint through every lease
that's fast
I don't know I mean my desktop it
doesn't it's not quite the same ceremony
as far as I'm aware like it's a tag and
I get hub release like what's the button
of bundling process yeah yeah yeah but
serious no I don't I don't mind a fast
we do I'm just taking an reeks
positivity and running with it yeah sure
so let's say let's try your day but if
you will see that it will be a rush job
then we can safely push it to the next
week I think more more to say like let's
start
that's whatever is I don't i've never
released desktop so unassuming henrique
I'm assuming that you're gonna do it
like do the do the release Intel ever oh
yeah I can go to the to the ipfs lens
today but I I will release the because
it's up 0.4 and I trust you wanna feel
to tell everyone okay yeah okay sure
will you be able to write some release
notes for that hmm will you be able to
write the release notes for that I
already already wrote some stuff but I
don't think there isn't a lot of things
to talk about in this religion it's some
bug fixes and we were just using em FS
on the first step I notice I said I
think that's quite a big one because it
means if they've used desktop before
then everything they used to seeing in
desktop will no longer be visible
yeah that's wonder business with me so
that's the headline yeah so I would I
would take a moment to review how you
want to do this release I don't know if
there's an e I don't know if there's any
code we could write to streamline that
process because it seems pretty
surprising
and I think a bunch of ipfs team will
have at least installed desktop at some
point I don't know I don't know the best
way to manage that right now actually
like 0.3 the change between 0.3 and the
current one I'd say is a big one when it
comes to stability and she's at the
meeting I don't feel that we should be
skittish with releasing it it's like a
different use guys done in companion of
custom like in companion we have
thousands of people like over 500 in
stable channel in Firefox alone so the
same from so I don't think that many
people use stop yet so we can be more
safe yeah Alan to two things I just
thought of it would be awesome if we had
some stats on how many downloads we have
for desktop how many current users and
stuff but also the my other potential
high discussion point is should we just
release it as a major version number
seeing as it's a big breaking change one
point no I don't think so
I appreciate the low number it sets the
proper expectations I think
unfortunately by peel assembler yes Alan
but privilege in the sub 11.0 numbers as
beta work layer you're not quite sure
what the app should do and everything
everything is there breaking change
surprise more I think more concretely
though I take needles point
you shouldn't be too worried about it
but I think hearing those words makes me
a lot more worried because we actually
have no idea how many people are using
I'd give this desktop and and we know
that we're about to break it for
everyone so I think probably we should
be a bit more or considered in how we
announce this change actually I just
came up with idea of like key results or
some feedback for other working groups
how should we generally speaking when it
comes to ideas projects or protocol labs
how should we track or even should we
track how many users are like installing
running our software oh hi Kyle we were
starting one hour earlier because of
daylight savings time and I think I feel
Kyle in using our from activist
community calendar never near me yeah
yeah we can hear you little was just
expressing concern that perhaps you did
not get the memo that tons and changed
sorry seven yeah like we have a summer
time right now so we moved this one hour
now my calendar said a sir that's a crab
yeah it's okay we just have no
permission to update the cracker sorry
for that we are recording this going
back to the idea is that I was asking if
we want to know how many people are
using our browser extension or
our desktop application how can we track
that and should we track that I feel
that's a question that someone else
could answer globally for like protocol
apps we have some privacy concerns these
days that would be nice to know how many
people are using that our applications
we can tell how many people are using
stable Firefox version and chrome
versions but we have no way of telling
how many people are running better
channel for example on Firefox so that's
something I will probably raise and ask
other working groups to address I think
it's a reasonable question it's more
along the lines of what would we use the
metrics for and if it's to make
decisions around how fast and least to
be with releasing we can probably just
decide what our tolerances are for how
tested is a piece of software before we
launch it without tracking people though
we don't attract anyone I think
companion with its add-on store download
stats I think that's a perfectly
adequate proxy for how many people are
using it for now I think we need to
install any extras and I think it will
it just has more potential to annoy
people than it does to give us useful
information but that's just that's just
like my opinion man anywho okay we were
just talking previously just as Koya
right after we was talking about the
desktop release plan and we went from
saying let's launch it immediately
Oh dot for two there me being like oh
way if I forget I just realized we're
going to break existing users view of
the world
Oh dot three doesn't use em FS and odo
four will use em FS so we need some
messaging to explain that to people or
we need to decide whether that's a
significant enough issue
that we should write code to copy across
things that your desktop app you know
dot three can see into your em FS I
think it should be front and center at
the very least we could provide a script
that might do that if people really want
it I don't know as a suggestion the yeah
we don't know how many people are using
desktop so it's difficult to make an
informed decision about it but given
we're on a zero point release and we
don't think we don't think there are
many people using it we might which
might just be able to get away with yeah
like I would not spend many resources on
that just put it in the bold font in the
release notes that we are now using him
FS and it's up to you to me great and I
think if you still want to see it I mean
on the account to that this is a this is
a project lots of people are interested
in if anyone's interested in oculus it's
entirely plausible that they've at least
Troy DS desktop and if we if we release
it we'd cut any release now that just
loses all your files or appears to lose
all your files because of course they'll
still be in your repo you just want me
to see them there isn't a super great
user experience yeah so I propose we
create an issue
okay first does to people to Tory and to
address this like should we create a
migration script and if this script is
created it should be like embedded
within application itself and when you
install the latest version it should
migrate your files automatically
otherwise there is no point in making it
just for for the sake of writing that
we've created the script it's either
automatically and transparent to the
user or we just put in the bolt that we
move to em FS and the your files will go
not gone but there is a different view
for data right
okay agreed that's probably the last
word on that do you want to talk about
ipfs companion release at all no like
like it will happen and my plan is to s
to make a release candidate this week as
soon as I emerge this PR from Allah
regarding ipfs files API in the name
scoping I feel that important one well
if you want to ship a release with a
window ipfs object we want to provide
this name spacing out of the box so that
there is no breaking change when it
comes to application that people start
playing with writing with this API so
release candidate will happen this week
I'm not sure if today before All Hands
maybe will take it slower but it would
happen this week and maybe a release a
week after that if there are no bugs
there is some work related to
localization I realize that there is a
long story about localization codes for
weird languages the problem with weird
languages is that no one reported to me
that translations do not work because
one person is using the block out so I
need to sort that out but that's like a
low priority if no one was reporting
that it's not working
probably everyone is running English
version anyway still I wanted to have
localization working before the release
so that's the plan and within two weeks
will should have a stable release that
it's just replacing the latest one I
think I think your dedication to
localization is super important and is
only going to get more important as as
these apps get better and it's a useful
reminder that we need to bake that in in
some form to web UI next yeah like as as
long as you start with
creating English locale that's enough to
be honest because lick people will come
to you and ask for localization or they
will just add that pull request then
when you see there's a need you just set
up some mighty web interface for
providing localization but for now just
just make sure the local localization
strings are in separate file like
there's some kind of framework and
that's all yeah so I'm aware that it's
been an hour
just a quick the only other thing that I
really wanted to talk about was we had a
really really productive session over
IRC this last week so the general
thought was would these weekly meetings
be more efficient as a time that we all
agree to be in the in web browsers IRC
channel just due to kind of language
barriers and pine zones and la-dee-da I
mean we can't solve time zones but at
least I'll see a slightly less cognitive
load at 7:00 in the morning
than an IRC chat so so often the time
delays in IRC we just have to work
around those because people check in and
out at different rates but if we had a
kind of time window if we had a time a
start time like a meeting but that was
conducted on IRC that was like this and
had an agenda but we didn't have to sit
on video um it was just put forward as a
possible alternative to this and I
wondered what people if that people were
interested in that if they felt that
that gets to counter like do people feel
that the video chat is important and
useful or should we experiment with IRC
chat a given I think it's more like
being available for conversation at a
static time each week but I'd be
interested today if anyone has any
thoughts against that
anyone yes I guess we can always jump on
a cool an actual face-to-face cool if we
decide that's needed
can't we if we start off with IRC oh are
you guys all based in Europe right now
like on this call yeah I mean but the 7
a.m. context like don't worry about me I
mean I'll get up as I don't care I get
up at 6 a.m. anyway so it's like not I
think of a deal for me if you don't mind
the way my hair looks at least but um ya
know don't just do it because like it
sucks for people over in Silicon Valley
aka me you know if you think that your
cars are important continue doing them
but I will couple with whatever you guys
want to do super-good um I think it's
nice to get FaceTime every now and again
but I think it it right now for us it's
more important that people feel that
they can say what's on their mind and
express themselves and that seemed to
work really well and I'll see the other
day just having like it's really useful
that we're all there at the same time so
the conversation flows got sherry people
in the office it's useful we're all
there at same times the conversation
flows but it seems to unfairly privilege
native English speakers because of the
way that like real time like
conversation works so IRC seems to be
fast enough that we all got our thoughts
across but slow enough that we all had
time to think about what we wanted to
say so that was the reason for
suggesting it sounds good to me the cool
okay so we'll try so we'll have the
meeting at the same time next week I'm
so 7 a.m. sorry but we'll just be on the
in web browsers IRC channel and we'll
just add that to their calendar
whenever someone with calendar powers
lets us do it I'm now super aware that
we've run over the hour but if if
there's only anybody has to dash off
nope Kyle was there anything you wanted
to talk about seeing as we
in secret without you no it's fine I'm
just I'm just listening in right now I
don't have any like specific things to
add to the conversation Rena did did you
see the chat from I'll see over the
course of the week the the major finding
was a consensus around focusing on a
rebuild of web UI going forwards and
rather than maintaining a separate
desktop app to build web you are using
window died BFFs as the communication
mechanism so that we can reuse this code
the web UI code in desktop directly yeah
that's that's great I mean that's
generally what I think we should do yeah
I guess that works for both you know it
just seems to be a massive win in terms
of effort particularly also around like
documentation when we make screencasts
about how to use this thing doesn't
matter whether you're a desktop user or
a web user it's the same same screencast
applies yeah I think that makes sense
yeah I mean you know if it's not working
for some reasons then you can always
just mean two versions right so I I am
looking forward to seeing the wireframes
really been published yet or we are a
designer down a couture is ill so I've
been focusing on are we distribute yeah
calm I just poured that to a hugo site
to be in line with all the other ipfs
sites but it's now driven from data so
we can start filling out filling out the
call to action uniform all right do you
you had a good bunch of meetings with
people last week did you get a chance to
write anything up about what their what
their needs and wants worth from like
the serve like moment you from from web
browsers and stuff yeah yeah yeah let me
uh let me let me get that sent out where
should I put that I guess in web
browsers or in web browsers I'll see
that'd be fine okay yep great and I've
got a mailing list I'm setting up this
week finally so I'll get everyone
invited to that perfect okay anyone got
any other business no other business
then this has been the in web browsers
working great team catch up and I'll see
you on IRC
this time next week